<!--Conditionals-->

# Conditionals

Conditionals allow the computer to execute different scenarios using a very specific syntax. 

## If/Else Statements

Let's examine the first one, the `if` and `else` conditional. 

<script>
  let carage = 4;
  if (carage < 5)
  {
    document.write("I love cars!");
  } 
  else
  {
    document.write("I don't like this car");
  }
</script>

The above block of code will print `I love cars!` because the condition that carage<5 is fulfilled. 

If carage was equal to or greater than 5 (carage>=5), the `else` statement would have been printed.

What happens if we have more than one condition? 

Enter the "else if" condition

## Else if 

The `else if` condition is used if the first condition is false. Let's modify our code so that we can use an `else if` function. 

<script>
  let carage = 5;
  if (carage < 5)
  {
    document.write("I love cars!");
  } 
  else if (carage===5)
    {
      alert("This one's alright");
    }
  else
  {
    document.write("I don't like this car");
  }
</script>

Recall that `===` is what we use to equate. In this certain block of code, the script would print out `This one's alright` because it is the only condition which is true.

## Switch

The switch statements evaluates the variable and looks for `cases` which would match the initial condition. 

<script>
  const fruit = 'Papayas';
switch (fruit) {
  case 'Oranges':
    document.write('Oranges are $0.59 a pound.');
    break;
  case 'Papayas':
    document.write('Papayas are $2.79 a pound.');
    break;
  default:
    document.write('Sorry, we are out of ' + fruit + '.');
}
</script>

We set "fruit" to Papayas, which means that the script will evaluate each case until it finds the appropriate case, and then it will execute that case. 

Note that switch statements have a `default`, which is what the script will default to if the condition doesn't have an associated case.

When writing a switch statement, don't forget to include a `break` which would "break" out of the conditional once if has executed the condition. A more-indepth look will be provided when we go over loops. 

