<!--Loops-->

# Loops

There are two main kinds of loops: for and while loops. Both of these are consistent in every type of programming language. JS also supports other types of loops

## For Loops

For loops iterate a certain amount of times, often dictated by the amount of items in an array. Let's look at an example and dissect it from there: 

<script>
  var fruit = ["Apple", "Banana", "Orange", "Melon", "Peach", "Plum"];
	var i;
	for (i = 0; i < fruit.length; i++) {
  	document.write(fruit[i] + ", ")
  }
</script>

This script will iterate 5 times and will print this: `Apple, Banana, Orange, Melon, Peach, Plum`

Recall that arrays start indexing their first item as fruit[0]. This means that fruit[5] becomes Plum. Hence, we can print all of the array. 

The general format of the for loop is as follows: 

`for (x,y,z){`

`code to be executed`

`}`

where x is executed once before the code block, y defines the condition to the execution of the code block, and z executes after the code block has been executed. 

## While Loops

While loops iterate through the loop for as long as the condition is true. Let's look at an example:

<script>
  var text = "";
	var i = 0;
	while (i < 10) {
  text += "<br>The number is " + i;
  i++;
}
document.write(text)
</script>

This loop iterates 0-9 times, so our result will look like this: 

`The number is 0
The number is 1` and so forth. The while loop iterated until i became 10, and then stopped iterating. The `i++` function adds 1 to i and increments it. `i--` would decrement the code. 

The general format of the while loop is as follows: 

`while (condition) {`

`code to be executed`

`}`



## Break

Break statements forces the loop to stop iterating and forces the code onto the next line of text. Here's what a break statement would look like: 

<script>
  var text = "";
	var i;
	for (i = 0; i < 10; i++) {
  	if (i === 3) { break; }
  	text += "The number is " + i + "<br>";
}
document.write(text)
</script>

Instead of printing all nine numbers, the code will print this: 

`The number is 0
The number is 1
The number is 2`

Because it will `break` when `i===3` and will skip past any of the remaining code. 

## Continue

Continue values are like the "opposite" of breaks. Instead of breaking out of the loop, they reiterate the function:

<script>
  var text = "";
	var i;
	for (i = 0; i < 10; i++) {
  	if (i === 3) { continue; }
  	text += "The number is " + i + "<br>";
}
document.write(text)
</script>

The result will skip over 3 until it reaches the end of the loop and then it will contunue to the next code block.

