Create an Express.js app that outputs "Hello World!" when somebody goes to `/home`.

The port number will be provided to you by {appname} as the first argument of
the application, i.e., `process.argv[2]`.

Run `$ killall node`  before verifying exercises (in your terminal on Mac OS X) to end any previous processes.

For Windows, use "taskkill /IM node.exe" in Command Prompt.

Don't forget to install the Express module if you haven't already.

```
$ npm install express --save
```

-----------------------------

## HINTS

This is how we can create an Express.js app on port 3000, that responds with
a string on `'/'`:

```js
const express = require('express')
const app = express()
app.get('/', function(req, res) {
  res.end('Hello World!')
})
app.listen(3000)
```

In your solution, please use `process.argv[2]` instead of a fixed port number:

```js
app.listen(process.argv[2])
```

Videos: http://bit.ly/1jW1sBf.

-----------------------------

## Tutorial

This exercise will have you create a method that will print out "Hello World!" when somebody goes to `/home`.

First, create a file called ```1-helloword.js``` and open it in an editor.

Insert the following code into ```1-helloword.js```:

We first need to import the express library. To do this we write the following:

```js
const express = require('express') 
```
After importing the library we will call the variable app which will create an express js app

```js
const app = express()
```

Next, we will create something called the first route which is similar to an endpoint. This line of code makes it so that the first input would be `/` and then the output would be `Hello World!`.


```js
app.get('/', function(req, res) {
      res.end('Hello World!')
})
```

This example code will run on port 3000 which will be indicated in the parentheses.

 ```js
app.listen(3000)
```

This is how we can create an Express.js app on port 3000, that responds with
a string on `'/'`:

Next we will need to install the library.

Type ``npm init`` into your terminal and click your `enter` key for each question.
When it asks ``Is this ok?`` enter `yes`.
This will create the packaged json files.

Now we will install the library by typing the following.

```js
$ npm install express@4.11.2 --save
```

Note: There could be a later version that can be installed.

Type ``node 1-helloword.js`` into the terminal.

Next open up your browser and type ``localhost:3000``.

This exercise wants us to type ``localhost:3000/home`` and have ``Hello World!`` to popped up into the screen.

To do this we need to edit the text in ``1-helloworld.js``.

change ``app.get('/', function(req, res)`` to ``app.get('/home', function(req, res)``
this will alter where the function will determine where to have the `Hello World!` pop up.

Next we will need to change the port number.

It was initially at 3000 so we need to change ``app.listen(3000)`` to ``app.listen(process.argv[2] || 3000)``. 
``process.argv[2]`` will be the value provided and the ``|| 3000 `` is also included incase no value is provided.

To check your work, type `expressworks run 1-helloworld.js`, if your code works, it should print out `hello world`.

To verify your work, type `expressworks verify 1-helloworld.js`.
